In the section we're going to discuss our first essential array method for each year or so for each
works.
First it is invoked on an array.
Second for each iterates or loops through the array and runs a callback function on each value in the
array.
Third when the loop ends for each returns undefined always always remember for each returns undefined.
If you try to store the result of for each in a variable or return the result of for each in a function
you will still always get undefined.
We mentioned that for each iterates through an array and runs a callback function on each value in the
array inside of the callback function we can get access to each of value the index of the value and
the array itself.
Let's see what we mean by that.
With the diagram we first start with an array and invoke in the array method on it.
In this case the method we're using is 40 each.
The first parameter to all of the array methods that we learn is a callback function for all of these
methods with the exception of reduce the callback function will accept three parameters.
The first is each value in the array.
The second is the index that we're at in the array and the third is the entire array inside of the callback
function.
We place code that we would like to be run.
For each value in the array since there are three values in the array the callback function will run
three times each time value and index parameter will be different.
Remember we can call the parameters to the callback function whatever we want.
Value Index and array are common names.
We do not always need all three parameters so only use the ones you need.
Just remember that the order is important.
Now that we have an idea of how the code is structured.
Let's see an example.
I'm going to create a variable called R and assign it to an array with the numbers 1 2 and 3 and I'll
then invoke the for each method on the array and pass in a callback function inside of this callback
function.
I have access to each value index that I'm at and the array which I'm iterating over.
Remember these are just parameters to a function so you can call them whatever you want.
Now inside of this callback function I'm going to cancel Dabbagh the value index an array so you can
see each of those values.
Now let's run this and you can see that we print out the value and index and array and finally we see
that for each returns undefined.
So how does this work.
Let's examine what implementation of four each might look like.
A great way to do this would be by implementing our own version of the for each function which would
accept an array and some callback function.
Remember for each iterates through an array runs a callback function on each value in the array and
returns undefined.
If you'd like positivity video now and try to implement this on your show write a function called for
each which accepts an array and a callback function.
For you see the solution.
OK so let's create a function called for each which accepts an array and a callback function.
I'm going to start with a for loop and initialize a variable.
A 0.
I'll keep looping as long as I is less than the length of the array passed to for each increment by
one after each iteration inside of here.
I'm going to invoke the callback with the Value Index and array as parameters.
Once we're done iterating I can add a return undefined or I can leave this empty and the function will
return undefined on its own.
Remember functions that do not have a return keyword will always output undefined.
So here's what a simple implementation of for each might look like.
Always remember that for each returns undefined.
Now let's see how we can use for each inside of a function.
Here I have a function called Half of values which accepts an array.
And inside here I am creating a new array.
I'm going to iterate over the array passed to the function using for each and push into the new array.
Each value divided by two.
Finally I'll return the new array.
Try this code example on your own.
To really master how the syntax works before you move on to our next story method.
Let's practice a bit with for each.
Good luck and I'll see you in the next video.